we're going to start in the Gaza Strip
where Israel's blocking of food Aid and
humanitarian supplies is forcing
starvation on hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians long cues of children in
the north of Gaza in particular are
desperate for anything to eat Aid
agencies including the Palestine red
cresant and the un's world food program
report people having starved to death
the wfp has recently paused a deliveries
to the north as it can't safely deliver
Aid in southern Gaza the Israeli
military is again targeting the city of
Rafa more than 1.5 million Palestinians
who've been forced out from other areas
are Sheltering there bodies have been
piling up at the al- naar hospital at
least 25 people have been killed as a
result of Israeli strikes on Rafa and k
yunas eight children are among the
dead in my lap lies Kinsey she was a
year and six months old I was at my
in-laws with my wife and daughter we had
tea and I played with my daughter and
hour after I left I heard air strikes on
the news they said there was an air
strike in the house I ran back only to
find my daughter my wife my in-laws many
members of the family
killed okay we're going to talk to Hy mm
who's live for us in Rafa in southern
Gaza let's talk to us first of all about
the the world food program saying that
it's pausing food deliveries to Northern
Gaza and of course other Aid is being
blocked as well tell us what's been
happening
it's well the decision of the world food
program came at a very difficult time
such dire times for Palestinians inside
the northern part of Gaza City where for
the past few weeks and in fact since the
beginning of the the war having been
able to get food supplies the vast
majority of humanitarian trucks haven't
been able to reach to the northern part
of the strip just leaving about 600,000
of people hungry and facing famine at
all level we're talking about but
Extreme shortage of of all necessities
and basic supplies and drinking all
contaminated water as the majority of
the water available is not suitable for
human consumption but right now and just
within the past couple weeks a famine
signs started to become more visible as
people resorted to eating plants wild
plants and and animals feed just to
sustain themselves in the face of This
calamity the decision by the world food
program just cuts a Lifeline that people
were hoping it was going to be delivered
for them so they are able to uh to face
these challenges imposed by the ongoing
uh genocidal War just within the past
couple of days we we looked at a video
where people surrounding a truck filled
with flower bags and just trying to get
their hands on whatever they're able to
get just for so they are able to bake
bread and provide for their families
this famine is hitting the northern part
of the Gaza Strip very hard particularly
when we talk about young children who
are in need of these necessities and
basic food supplies in nutrients for
their growth and also another vulnerable
group uh people with health
complications as well as women who are
breastfeeding or a pregnant are in need
of basic supplies food if this is going
on we're going to see start seeing
people dying in the northern part not
only from the bombs but also from the
famine that is spreads like fire now uh
of course we're still talking about
ongoing strikes on the resident of Gaza
tell us what's been happening in the
last few
hours yes it's been very interesting
timing almost hours after the UN
Security Council failed to pass a
resolution calling for an immediate
ceasefire we seen intense bombing
campaign taking place in the Central
Area city of kanun and over over crowded
Rafa City and just overnight attacks the
Israeli military it pushed about 30
tanks in a bulldozer with a coverage of
attack drones and F16 all the way to Al
maasi area masasi evacuation Zone where
thousands of people literally have been
evacuating and Sheltering in this area
as they were told by the Israeli
military since the beginning of the war
if they want to avoid being bombed in
the northern Gaza they should move to
this area found himself and is still in
a state of panic and shock that this is
happening or this happened to them in a
very area that they were told it is safe
the isra military took over the coastal
Road cutting off the central area from
the southern part of the Gaza Strip in
the Central Area more residential homes
and about one car that was targeted by
missile drones leaving more than 45
people killed and tens of other injuries
reported to Ala hospital here in raah
City overnight attack killed five
members of One family Sheltering in a
residential home in Al Jan district and
just within the past couple hours a car
was targeting the eastern part of RA and
we've seen this pattern happening almost
every area takes turn in the the bombing
that continues to destroy much of the
residential buildings the infrastructure
but more profoundly the trauma that is
caused to people who are seeking
shelters in these areas Hy thank you
very much indeed Han mahm talking to us
from Rafa in southern Gaza